# ComplexMarketData
The data collected from the Complex Market Study on Capuchin Monkeys

How does ecological complexity influence animals’ abilities to learn to maximize their decisions? Many laboratory studies focus on simple decision tasks with few options, but in the wild, animals presumably face more variety. For example, the standard biological market task involves subjects having to choose consistently between two options, both of which provide identical immediate reinforcement, but the ephemeral option can only be selected if it is chosen first while the permanent option is always available. An extended more complex version involves the addition of two presentations; ephemeral-ephemeral and permanent-permanent options. Adding such variety lowers the mean performance of bluestreak cleaner wrasse (Labroides dimidiatus), one of the few species demonstrated to solve the simpler version. Here, we show that tufted capuchin monkeys (Sapajus [Cebus] apella), another species that can maximize outcomes in a computerized version of the simple task, were also less likely to choose the ephemeral option in the complex version. As recent theoretical work suggests that the complex version requires grouping the elements through configural learning, half of our subjects underwent training proposed to aid in the configural learning process prior to experiencing the added diversity. As with the fish, this training did not improve the capuchins’ ability to pick the ephemeral option first. These results raise questions about how animals learn to maximize their outcomes in variable natural situations.
